# BNJetTag
BNJetTag.

# User Guide

## Set up your Work Environment

Install `micromamba` as your package manager:
1. ```bash
   uname -m #tells you Linux architecture. For x86_64:
   # Linux Intel (x86_64):
   curl -Ls https://micro.mamba.pm/api/micromamba/linux-64/latest | tar -xvj bin/micromamba
   ```
2. ```bash
   export MAMBA_ROOT_PREFIX=/some/prefix  # optional, defaults to ~/micromamba
   eval "$(./bin/micromamba shell hook -s posix)"
   ```
3. ```bash
   # Linux/bash:
   ./bin/micromamba shell init -s bash -r ~/micromamba  # this writes to your .bashrc file
   # sourcing the bashrc file incorporates the changes into the running session.
   # better yet, restart your terminal!
   source ~/.bashrc
   ```
4. Create your environment by running:
   `micromamba env create -f environment.yml`
5. When finished, activate it with `micromamba activate <env_name>`.

## Reconstructing Jets:
The Ntuples (root files) containing particle data, i.e. events with particles, can be accessed using the grid through LXPLUS or LPC, for instance. You don't need the grid if you are working on UAF or Mulder. Once we can access the Ntuples, we need to extract the particle information and cluster them into jets with the `dataForgeScripts/dataForge.py` script. Such a file can be run using the following command in the terminal with the corresponding arguments: 

```
cd dataForgeScripts/dataForge.py
Python3 DataForge.py </path/to/file> (using xrootd or another access mode) QCDpt30 30 50 0
```

Order of the arguments is as follows:

path to file (using xrootd: `root://cmsxrootd.fnal.gov///store/...` if applicable)

tag = "QCDpt30" or "Stpt30" in this case. This is just a tag to be added to the name of the file.

ptCut = 30 (so, jets with Pt>30 GeV in this case).

trainPercent = 60 (60 % training data).

usePuppi = 0 (0 for pf, 1 for PUPPI).

## Removing Background Jets from Signal Sample: 
We have two main sources of background in our data: all jets reconstructed from the QCD Ntuples and some jets reconstructed from our signal Ntuples. The latter ones represent jets where the LLP is not matched to a jet in the event as determined by the DeltaR value. The script `removeBackground.py` can help us remove such jets to create a true-signal dataset. For that, we need to input the .h5 files (test and train) generated by dataForge.py from signal Ntuples. We can do that by running:

`python3 removeBackground.py "<path/train/filename.h5>" "<path/test/file.h5>"`

## Training QKeras Model:

We can run can run this by passing three arguments the following way:
`python3 qkerasModel.py "<SignalTrainFile.h5>" "<BackgroundTrainFile.h5>" "<JetData_TrainFile.h5>"`. These files should have resulted from the DataForge.py and/or `removeBackground.py`.
The `"<JetData_TrainFile.h5>"` will look something like `"sampleData...h5"` resulting from `DataForge.py'.


## ROC Curve from QKeras Model:
Inside `qkROC.py`, add paths of the testing data resulting from the DataForge.py and/or `removeBackground.py`.
